README.md, before:

# OOW

An "Object-Oriented way" for JS (methods that should exist by default). The idea is to add more OO
experience, especially suited for teaching OOP. **Not intended for production usage.**

## Installation

`npm install @pmoo/oow`

(required Node version: 8.x or higher)

## Extensions

### Summary

|object or objects affected  |class or instance|extension method            |comment                                            |
|:---------------------------|:----------------|:---------------------------|:--------------------------------------------------|
|`Object`                    | instance        |`childResponsibility()`     |mark a method as _abstract_ (to be used on objects)|
|                            |                 |`subclassResponsibility()`  |mark a method as _abstract_ (to be used on classes)|
|                            |                 |`class()`                   |returns the receiver's class|
|`Function`                  | instance        |`value(...args)`            |evaluates the function with the given arguments, equivalent to `apply` with the first argument being `undefined`|
|                            |                 |`new(...args)`              |to be able to write `Class.new()` as equivalent to `new Class()`|
|`Date`                      | class           |`today()`                   |returns today's date|
|                            |                 |`tomorrow()`                |returns tomorrow's date|
|                            |                 |`yesterday()`               |returns yesterday's date|
|                            | instance        |`day()`                     |returns the day number|
|                            |                 |`monthNumber()`             |returns the month number (from 1 to 12)|
|                            |                 |`year()`                    |returns the year number (4 digits)|
|`Array`                     | class           |`with(...objects)`          |returns a new instance with the given objects|
|                            | instance        |`add(anObject)`             |adds one element, equivalent to `push(anObject)`|
|                            |                 |`remove(anObject)`          |removes an element from the collection|
|                            |                 |`equals(anArray)`           |equality comparison (elements one by one)|
|                            |                 |`clear()`                   |removes all the elements|
|`String`                    | instance        |`filter(condition)`         |filters letters that match the given condition|
|                            |                 |`forEach(function)`         |iterates over every letter evaluating the given function|
|                            |                 |`equals(aString)`           |equality comparison, equivalent to `===`|
|                            |                 |`reverse()`                 |returns the reversed version of the receiver|
|`Set`                       | class           |`with(...objects)`          |returns a new instance with the given objects|
|                            | instance        |`dimension()`               |returns the collection size, equivalent to calling the `size` property|
|                            |                 |`includes(anObject)`        |check for element inclusion, equivalent to `has(anObject)`|
|                            |                 |`equals(aSet)`              |equality comparison, based on mutual inclusion|
|                            |                 |`filter(condition)`         |filters all the elements matching the given condition|
|                            |                 |`map(function)`             |returns a new `Set` with the result of applying a function to every element in the collection|
|                            |                 |`remove(anObject)`          |removes an object, equivalent to `delete(anObject)`|
|                            |                 |`union(aSet)`               |returns a new `Set` representing the union of the receiver and the argument|
|                            |                 |`intersection(aSet)`        |returns a new `Set` representing the intersection of the receiver and the argument|
|`Array` and `Set`           | instance        |`compact()`                 |returns a new instance without `null` and `undefined` values|
|                            |                 |`removeAll()`               |removes all the elements, equivalent to `clear()`|
|`Array` and `String`        | instance        |`at(position)`              |returns the n-th element, equivalent to using `collection[n]`|
|                            |                 |`dimension()`               |returns the collection size, equivalent to call the `length` property|
|                            |                 |`first()`                   |returns the first element|
|                            |                 |`second()`                  |returns the second element|
|                            |                 |`third()`                   |returns the third element|
|                            |                 |`last()`                    |returns the last element|
|                            |                 |`take(n)`                   |returns a new collection with the first n elements|
|                            |                 |`drop(n)`                   |returns a new collection discarding the first n elements|
|                            |                 |`occurrencesOf(anObject)`   |returns how many times an object appears in the collection|
|                            |                 |`allButFirst()`             |returns a copy of the collection except for the first element|
|                            |                 |`allButLast()`              |returns a copy of the collection except for the last element|
|`Array`, `Set` and `String` | instance        |`isEmpty()`                 |returns if the collection is empty|
|                            |                 |`notEmpty()`                |returns if the collection is not empty|
|                            |                 |`any(condition)`            |returns `true` if any element matches the given condition|
|                            |                 |`all(condition)`            |returns `true` if all elements match the given condition|
|                            |                 |`includesAllOf(collection)` |returns `true` if the collection includes all the elements from the argument|
|                            |                 |`count(condition)`          |returns how many elements match the given condition|
|                            |                 |`atRandom()`                |returns a random element|
|                            |                 |`sample()`                  |returns a random element, equivalent to `atRandom()`|
|                            |                 |`asArray()`                 |returns a new `Array` with all the collection elements|
|                            |                 |`asSet()`                   |returns a new `Set` with all the collection elements|

To see how all the available extensions are being used, please have a look at the tests inside the `test` folder.

### Collections

`Array`, `String` and `Set` are classes that have very few methods in common, even though
they are all collections. For instance, `Set` has `size` and Array has `length`. So this
library defines some common behavior to make sure we can have more polymorphism.

Most of the added message names are inspired by Smalltalk (`isEmpty`, `includesAllOf`, `at`)
and Ruby (`take`, `drop`, `compact`).

#### Polymorphism achieved so far

Among many of the messages added to the collection protocols, these are the messages that some collections have by default but others don't:

* `add(obj)` works for `Array` and `Set` (we added the `Array` version)
* `includes(obj)` works for `Array` and `Set` (we added the `Set` version)
* `filter(condition)` works for every collection (we added the `String` and `Set` versions)
* `forEach(function)` works for every collection (we added the `String` version)
* `reverse()` works for `Array` and `String` (we added the `String` version)
* `clear()` works for `Array` and `Set` (we added the `Array` version)

### `Date`

Working with `Date` is not so easy so there're also helper methods like `monthNumber` that
returns a number from 1 to 12.

## New Objects

### `Point`

`Point` class represents an (x, y) pair. You can access its parts by sending `x()` and `y()` messages. Instances of this class are immutable.

### `DayOfMonth`

`DayOfMonth` represents a day in a month, not specific to a year, like "November 9th". The `day()` and `monthNumber()` messages can be used to access the information. Instances of this class are immutable. 

### `MonthOfYear`

`MonthOfYear` represents a month in a specific year like "May of 2020". The `monthNumber()` and `year()` messages can be used to access the information. Instances of this class are immutable.

Commit message:

add extensions to Number and update README.md

README.md, after:

# OOW

An "Object-Oriented way" for JS (methods that should exist by default). The idea is to add more OO
experience, especially suited for teaching OOP. **Not intended for production usage.**

## Installation

`npm install @pmoo/oow`

(required Node version: 8.x or higher)

## Extensions

### Summary

|object or objects affected  |class or instance|extension method            |comment                                            |
|:---------------------------|:----------------|:---------------------------|:--------------------------------------------------|
|`Object`                    | instance        |`childResponsibility()`     |mark a method as _abstract_ (to be used on objects)|
|                            |                 |`subclassResponsibility()`  |mark a method as _abstract_ (to be used on classes)|
|                            |                 |`class()`                   |returns the receiver's class|
|`Function`                  | instance        |`value(...args)`            |evaluates the function with the given arguments, equivalent to `apply` with the first argument being `undefined`|
|                            |                 |`new(...args)`              |to be able to write `Class.new()` as equivalent to `new Class()`|
|`Date`                      | class           |`today()`                   |returns today's date|
|                            |                 |`tomorrow()`                |returns tomorrow's date|
|                            |                 |`yesterday()`               |returns yesterday's date|
|                            | instance        |`day()`                     |returns the day number|
|                            |                 |`monthNumber()`             |returns the month number (from 1 to 12)|
|                            |                 |`year()`                    |returns the year number (4 digits)|
|`Array`                     | class           |`with(...objects)`          |returns a new instance with the given objects|
|                            | instance        |`add(anObject)`             |adds one element, equivalent to `push(anObject)`|
|                            |                 |`remove(anObject)`          |removes an element from the collection|
|                            |                 |`equals(anArray)`           |equality comparison (elements one by one)|
|                            |                 |`clear()`                   |removes all the elements|
|`String`                    | instance        |`filter(condition)`         |filters letters that match the given condition|
|                            |                 |`forEach(function)`         |iterates over every letter evaluating the given function|
|                            |                 |`equals(aString)`           |equality comparison, equivalent to `===`|
|                            |                 |`reverse()`                 |returns the reversed version of the receiver|
|`Set`                       | class           |`with(...objects)`          |returns a new instance with the given objects|
|                            | instance        |`dimension()`               |returns the collection size, equivalent to calling the `size` property|
|                            |                 |`includes(anObject)`        |check for element inclusion, equivalent to `has(anObject)`|
|                            |                 |`equals(aSet)`              |equality comparison, based on mutual inclusion|
|                            |                 |`filter(condition)`         |filters all the elements matching the given condition|
|                            |                 |`map(function)`             |returns a new `Set` with the result of applying a function to every element in the collection|
|                            |                 |`remove(anObject)`          |removes an object, equivalent to `delete(anObject)`|
|                            |                 |`union(aSet)`               |returns a new `Set` representing the union of the receiver and the argument|
|                            |                 |`intersection(aSet)`        |returns a new `Set` representing the intersection of the receiver and the argument|
|`Array` and `Set`           | instance        |`compact()`                 |returns a new instance without `null` and `undefined` values|
|                            |                 |`removeAll()`               |removes all the elements, equivalent to `clear()`|
|`Array` and `String`        | instance        |`at(position)`              |returns the n-th element, equivalent to using `collection[n]`|
|                            |                 |`dimension()`               |returns the collection size, equivalent to call the `length` property|
|                            |                 |`first()`                   |returns the first element|
|                            |                 |`second()`                  |returns the second element|
|                            |                 |`third()`                   |returns the third element|
|                            |                 |`last()`                    |returns the last element|
|                            |                 |`take(n)`                   |returns a new collection with the first n elements|
|                            |                 |`drop(n)`                   |returns a new collection discarding the first n elements|
|                            |                 |`occurrencesOf(anObject)`   |returns how many times an object appears in the collection|
|                            |                 |`allButFirst()`             |returns a copy of the collection except for the first element|
|                            |                 |`allButLast()`              |returns a copy of the collection except for the last element|
|`Array`, `Set` and `String` | instance        |`isEmpty()`                 |returns if the collection is empty|
|                            |                 |`notEmpty()`                |returns if the collection is not empty|
|                            |                 |`any(condition)`            |returns `true` if any element matches the given condition|
|                            |                 |`all(condition)`            |returns `true` if all elements match the given condition|
|                            |                 |`includesAllOf(collection)` |returns `true` if the collection includes all the elements from the argument|
|                            |                 |`count(condition)`          |returns how many elements match the given condition|
|                            |                 |`atRandom()`                |returns a random element|
|                            |                 |`sample()`                  |returns a random element, equivalent to `atRandom()`|
|                            |                 |`asArray()`                 |returns a new `Array` with all the collection elements|
|                            |                 |`asSet()`                   |returns a new `Set` with all the collection elements|
|`Number`                    | instance        |`isDivisibleBy(aNumber)`    |returns `true` if the receiver is divisible by the argument|
|                            |                 |`isOdd()`                   |returns `true` if the receiver is odd|
|                            |                 |`isEven()`                  |returns `true` if the receiver is even|
|                            |                 |`isPositive()`              |returns `true` if the receiver is positive|
|                            |                 |`isNegative()`              |returns `true` if the receiver is negative|
|                            |                 |`isBetween(minimun,maximun)`|returns `true` if the receiver is between the first and the second arguments|
|                            |                 |`timesRepeat(aFunction)`    |call aFunction as many times as the receiver of the message|


To see how all the available extensions are being used, please have a look at the tests inside the `test` folder.

### Collections

`Array`, `String` and `Set` are classes that have very few methods in common, even though
they are all collections. For instance, `Set` has `size` and Array has `length`. So this
library defines some common behavior to make sure we can have more polymorphism.

Most of the added message names are inspired by Smalltalk (`isEmpty`, `includesAllOf`, `at`)
and Ruby (`take`, `drop`, `compact`).

#### Polymorphism achieved so far

Among many of the messages added to the collection protocols, these are the messages that some collections have by default but others don't:

* `add(obj)` works for `Array` and `Set` (we added the `Array` version)
* `includes(obj)` works for `Array` and `Set` (we added the `Set` version)
* `filter(condition)` works for every collection (we added the `String` and `Set` versions)
* `forEach(function)` works for every collection (we added the `String` version)
* `reverse()` works for `Array` and `String` (we added the `String` version)
* `clear()` works for `Array` and `Set` (we added the `Array` version)

### `Date`

Working with `Date` is not so easy so there're also helper methods like `monthNumber` that
returns a number from 1 to 12.

## New Objects

### `Point`

`Point` class represents an (x, y) pair. You can access its parts by sending `x()` and `y()` messages. Instances of this class are immutable.

### `DayOfMonth`

`DayOfMonth` represents a day in a month, not specific to a year, like "November 9th". The `day()` and `monthNumber()` messages can be used to access the information. Instances of this class are immutable. 

### `MonthOfYear`

`MonthOfYear` represents a month in a specific year like "May of 2020". The `monthNumber()` and `year()` messages can be used to access the information. Instances of this class are immutable.
